docs: add blog post for js-ipfs 0.42.0 release (#392)
ipfs/blog: content/post/087-js-ipfs-0.42.md

---
date: 2020-04-14
url: 2020-04-14-js-ipfs-0-42
title: js-ipfs 0.42.0 released
author: Alex Potsides
---

# 🔦 Highlights

> Smaller, faster, more reliable

`js-IPFS@0.42.0` has been released, bringing a host of bug fixes and other small stability improvements.

> It reduces the size of the minified bundle by 7.5% for faster downloads and more responsive web apps!

Reviewer: Can you add a highlight about monorepo work making it easier to contribute and code spelunk?

Author: I've added a bit at the start

## 🤖 Automated publishing of RCs

> Release Candidate builds of [`js-ipfs`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ipfs) and [`ipfs-http-client`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ipfs-http-client) are now being published to npm with every build of master, so you can try out the very bleeding edge with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Release Candidate builds of [`js-ipfs`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ipfs) and [`js-ipfs-http-client`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ipfs-http-client) are now being published to npm with every build of master, so you can try out the very bleeding edge with:
```

```console
$ npm install -g ipfs@next
or
$ npm install ipfs-http-client@next
```

> This will download and install a version of `js-ipfs` and/or `ipfs-http-client` created from the last successful [build](https://travis-ci.com/github/ipfs/js-ipfs/branches) of master with no github URLs in the production dependency tree.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will download and install a version of `js-ipfs` and/or `js-ipfs-http-client` created from the last successful [build](https://travis-ci.com/github/ipfs/js-ipfs/branches) of master with no github URLs in the production dependency tree.
```

## 🛳️ Updated Docker containers

Publishing to Docker Hub has been restored so you can get a container running the latest and greatest `js-ipfs` with:

```console
$ docker pull ipfs/js-ipfs
```

You can also pull pre-releases at any time with:

```console
$ docker pull ipfs/js-ipfs:next
```

Check out all the releases at: https://hub.docker.com/r/ipfs/js-ipfs

## ✨New features

The [MFS][] CLI now supports nanosecond mtimes, use it with the following commands:

```console
$ jsipfs mkdir /directory --mtime 1000 --mtime-nsecs 5
```

`--mode` and `--mtime` are now also supported when piping files to `jsipfs add`:

```console
$ cat ./file.txt | jsipfs add --mode 0500
```

> ## 🔨 Breaking changes

Reviewer 2: Weird whitespace or something (check the preview)

```suggestion
## 🔨 Breaking changes
```

Author: Something something VSCode, it'd make me really happy if I could figure out why it does this sometimes..

- [HAMT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_array_mapped_trie) sharded directories are now reported as having a type of `'directory'` from `ipfs.files.stat` in line with `go-ipfs`
- When specifying metadata and `--raw-leaves` to `ipfs.add`, if the file is small enough to fit into one block, `--raw-leaves` is ignored and a [UnixFS][] entry is created (previously the returned [CID][] would have a codec of `raw`)

## 🦟 Bugs fixed

- WebRTC configuration is now passed to the libp2p WebRTC transport correctly
- Unknown CLI commands now cause the process to exit with a non-zero exit code

> - Running Prometheus metrics in Docker containers no longer prevent the container from starting

Reviewer 2: Can we get some links to PRs for more info on these?

Author: Done!

> ## 💍 One PR to rule them all

Reviewer 2: "Lerna Monorepo" might be a more attention grabbing and exciting headline for this.

Author: I'm all up for more exciting headlines, it just makes me groan a bit - it's not really a monorepo because there are still plenty of modules used pretty much exclusively by js-ipfs in other repos and lerna is just a tool, I really wanted to concentrate on the why not the how.

A common observation made about IPFS development is that there are so many repos to gain knowledge of, it’s hard to know how everything fits together and where a problem might originate, all of which makes it hard to start contributing.

> Contributors will sometimes spend precious time crafting one PR, only to be told they need to make additional PRs to repos they didn't even know existed in order to land their intial change. This often ends up being too much of a barrier for developers who have external time pressures we aren’t aware of.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Contributors will sometimes spend precious time crafting one PR, only to be told they need to make additional PRs to repos they didn't even know existed in order to land their initial change. This often ends up being too much of a barrier for developers who have external time pressures we aren’t aware of.
```

> Features must be staged accross multiple releases from multiple repos, any of which have the possibility of blocking other work streams if human error bugs are introduced, or perhaps a piece of work was not a fully specified as it needed to be.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Features must be staged across multiple releases from multiple repos, any of which have the possibility of blocking other work streams if human error bugs are introduced, or perhaps a piece of work was not as fully specified as it needed to be.
```

To start to address this we've consolidated `js-ipfs`, `js-ipfs-http-client` and `interface-js-ipfs-core` into [one repository](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs).  This made sense because a given IPFS feature is typically implemented in `js-ipfs`, exposed over http by the http client and tests are added to the interface suite to ensure everything works together - now you will be able to make that sort of change in one PR instead of three!

> It's our hope that this will go some way towards simplifying IPFS development and will encourage new contributors to pitch in and help us build a the platform to power the distributed web.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's our hope that this will go some way towards simplifying IPFS development and will encourage new contributors to pitch in and help us build the platform to power the distributed web.
```

## 🗺️ What's next?

To get a better view on what's coming up in `js-ipfs` releases, we've put a [Project Roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/ipfs/projects/6) togther that contains headline features organised in the order we hope them to land.

> Only Large features are called out in the roadmap, expect lots of small bugfx releases between the roadmapped items!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only large features are called out in the roadmap, expect lots of small bug fix releases between the roadmapped items!
```

---
date: 2020-04-14
url: 2020-04-14-js-ipfs-0-42

> title: js-ipfs 0.42.0 released

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
title: js-ipfs 0.42.0 released
header_image: js-ipfs-placeholder.png
```

author: Alex Potsides
---

# 🔦 Highlights

> Smaller, faster, more reliable

`js-IPFS@0.42.0` has been released, bringing a host of bug fixes and other small stability improvements.

It reduces the size of the minified bundle by 7.5% for faster downloads and more responsive web apps!

> We've also merged some of our repos together, our hope is that this will make contributing easier and encourage experimentation as there will be fewer PRs to juggle to land a piece of functionality!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We've also merged some of our repos together which were logically intertwined. Our hope is that this will make contributing easier and encourage experimentation as there will be fewer PRs to juggle to land a piece of functionality!
```

```

## 🔨 Breaking changes

- [HAMT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_array_mapped_trie) sharded directories are now reported as having a type of `'directory'` from `ipfs.files.stat` in line with `go-ipfs`
- When specifying metadata and `--raw-leaves` to `ipfs.add`, if the file is small enough to fit into one block, `--raw-leaves` is ignored and a [UnixFS][] entry is created (previously the returned [CID][] would have a codec of `raw`)

## 🦟 Bugs fixed

- WebRTC configuration is now passed to the libp2p WebRTC transport correctly [ipfs/js-ipfs#2966](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/pull/2966)
- Unknown CLI commands now cause the process to exit with a non-zero exit code [ipfs/js-ipfs#2916](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/pull/2916)
- Running Prometheus metrics in Docker containers no longer prevent the container from starting [ipfs/js-ipfs#2952](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues/2952)

## 💍 One PR to rule them all

A common observation made about IPFS development is that there are so many repos to gain knowledge of, it’s hard to know how everything fits together and where a problem might originate, all of which makes it hard to start contributing.

> Contributors will sometimes spend precious time crafting one PR, only to be told they need to make additional PRs to repos they didn't even know existed in order to land their initial change. This often ends up being too much of a barrier for developers who have external time pressures we aren’t aware of.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Contributors will sometimes spend precious time crafting one PR, only to be told they need to make additional PRs to repos they didn't even know existed in order to land their initial change. This often ends up being too much of a barrier for developers who have external time pressures or have other shiny PRs to push on.
```

> Features must be staged across multiple releases from multiple repos, any of which have the possibility of blocking other work streams if human error bugs are introduced, or perhaps a piece of work was not as fully specified as it needed to be.

Reviewer 4: Don't quite parse this. How does not specifying your work fit in? Maybe break into two sentences?

Author: I've reworded that part, hopefully it's a bit clearer now!

$ npm install -g ipfs@next
or
$ npm install ipfs-http-client@next
```

This will download and install a version of `js-ipfs` and/or `js-ipfs-http-client` created from the last successful [build](https://travis-ci.com/github/ipfs/js-ipfs/branches) of master with no GitHub URLs in the production dependency tree.

## 🛳️ Updated Docker containers

Publishing to Docker Hub has been restored so you can get a container running the latest and greatest `js-ipfs` with:

```console
$ docker pull ipfs/js-ipfs
```

You can also pull pre-releases at any time with:

```console
$ docker pull ipfs/js-ipfs:next
```

Check out all the releases at: https://hub.docker.com/r/ipfs/js-ipfs

## ✨New features

The [MFS][] CLI now supports nanosecond mtimes, use it with the following commands:

```console
$ jsipfs mkdir /directory --mtime 1000 --mtime-nsecs 5
```

`--mode` and `--mtime` are now also supported when piping files to `jsipfs add`:

```console
$ cat ./file.txt | jsipfs add --mode 0500
```

## 🔨 Breaking changes

- [HAMT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_array_mapped_trie) sharded directories are now reported as having a type of `'directory'` from `ipfs.files.stat` in line with `go-ipfs`

> - When specifying metadata and `--raw-leaves` to `ipfs.add`, if the file is small enough to fit into one block, `--raw-leaves` is ignored and a [UnixFS][] entry is created (previously the returned [CID][] would have a codec of `raw`)

Reviewer 5: nit: add links to related issues/PRs, as we do for bugs below?

Author: Done!
